Oshift prometheus monitoring (#526)
UKCloud/documentation: articles/openshift/oshift-ref-cluster-monitoring.md

---
title: OpenShift integrated cluster monitoring | UKCloud Ltd
description: Provides information on the Prometheus monitoring stack deployed with OpenShift v3.11
services: openshift
author: Kieran O'Neill
toc_rootlink: Reference
toc_sub1: 
toc_sub2:
toc_sub3:
toc_sub4:
toc_title: OpenShift integrated cluster monitoring
toc_fullpath: Reference/oshift-ref-cluster-monitoring.md
toc_mdlink: oshift-ref-cluster-monitoring.md
---

# OpenShift integrated cluster monitoring

### Overview

> OpenShift 3.11 ships with a pre-configured and self-updating monitoring stack based on the Prometheus open source project. This ships with a set of alerts that notify the cluster admin of problems and a set of Grafana dashboards. The deployed Prometheus instance is responsible for monitoring and alerting on cluster and OpenShift components, it shouldn't be extended to monitor user applications. Users interested in leveraging Prometheus for application monitoring on OpenShift should consider using the operator lifecycle manager (https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-lifecycle-manager) to easily deploy a Prometheus Operator and setup new Prometheus instances to monitor and alert on their applications. Alertmanager is a cluster-global component for handling alerts generated by all Prometheus instances deployed in that cluster.

Reviewer: Is this true, is there no application monitoring carried out at all by prometheus by default? For some reason I thought it would scrape metrics from applications too automatically as its discovers them.

Author: Yeah it does scrape metrics from pods - I think this means specifically changing it to monitor apps. I'll make the wording clearer.

### Resource

> We run cluster monitoring with persistent storage, this means that the metrics are stored on a persistent volume and can survive a pod being restarted or recreated. Each Alertmanager instance conumes 2Gi and each Prometheus instance consumes 50Gi. In a standard cluster with two infrastructure nodes this will mean 106Gi of storage will be used for cluster monitoring. If the persistent volumes fill up, or you notice them getting close to being full, you can follow this guide to expand the persistent volumes: https://docs.ukcloud.com/articles/openshift/oshift-how-expand-persistent-vols.html

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cluster monitoring is deployed with persistent storage, this means that the metrics are stored on a persistent volume and can survive a pod being restarted or recreated. By default each Alertmanager instance is allocated 2Gi and each Prometheus instance is allocated 50Gi. In a standard cluster with two infrastructure nodes this will mean 106Gi of storage will be used for cluster monitoring. If the persistent volumes fill up, or you notice them getting close to being full, you can follow this guide to expand the persistent volumes or raise a ticket in the support portal: https://docs.ukcloud.com/articles/openshift/oshift-how-expand-persistent-vols.html
```

### Configuration

> The only Red Hat supported configuration options for the integrated monitoring stack are variables used at the time of deployment and can be seen here: https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/3.11/install_config/prometheus_cluster_monitoring.html#configuring-openshift-cluster-monitoring

Reviewer: I don't like this approach. Read the options, most are not customer relevant and would require us to do something like change the storage class tier or something. The exception is the alertmanager config which is probably passed into a configmap or something that is customisable. Investigate that a bit more and we might be able to put some guidance in there. These docs need to add value too not just summarise the RH docs.

Author: Why couldn't we redeploy Prometheus with tier1 storage/more storage etc if the customer asks for it? Mostly that was put in to make the following make sense: 'Red Hat advises: Beyond those explicit configuration options, it is possible to inject additional configuration into the stack. However this is unsupported, as configuration paradigms might change across Prometheus releases, and such cases can only be handled gracefully if all configuration possibilities are controlled.' I'll take a look at the alertmanage stuff.

Red Hat advises: Beyond those explicit configuration options, it is possible to inject additional configuration into the stack. However this is unsupported, as configuration paradigms might change across Prometheus releases, and such cases can only be handled gracefully if all configuration possibilities are controlled.

### Accessing Web UIs

`oc get routes -n openshift-monitoring` will give you the URLs you can use to access Prometheus, Alertmanage and Grafana UIs. You'll need to prepend `https://` to the addresses.

### Grafana Dashboards

> If you navigate to the Grafana web UI you'll be able to access a number of pre-configured dashboards. These dashboards provide insight into the compute resource usage at cluster, node and pod levels. There are also USE Method dashboards at the cluster and node level. Click the dropdown in the top left on the home dashboard to select which dashboard you'd like to view.

Reviewer: What's the grafana web UI address? We should be able to give a clue as to the URL here...

Author: The section right above this tells them how to get this from their cluster...

---
title: OpenShift integrated cluster monitoring | UKCloud Ltd
description: Provides information on the Prometheus monitoring stack deployed with OpenShift v3.11
services: openshift
author: Kieran O'Neill
reviewer: 
lastreviewed: 

toc_rootlink: Reference
toc_sub1: 
toc_sub2:
toc_sub3:
toc_sub4:
toc_title: OpenShift integrated cluster monitoring
toc_fullpath: Reference/oshift-ref-cluster-monitoring.md
toc_mdlink: oshift-ref-cluster-monitoring.md
---

# OpenShift integrated cluster monitoring

### Overview

> OpenShift 3.11 ships with a pre-configured and self-updating monitoring stack based on the Prometheus open source project. This ships with a set of alerts that notify the cluster admin of problems and a set of Grafana dashboards. The deployed Prometheus instance is responsible for monitoring and alerting on cluster and OpenShift components. While it will enable you to monitor the compute resources of your pods using the `K8s / Compute Resources / Pod` Grafana dashboard, it shouldn't be extended to monitor user applications. Users interested in leveraging Prometheus for application monitoring on OpenShift should consider using the operator lifecycle manager (https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-lifecycle-manager) to easily deploy a Prometheus Operator and setup new Prometheus instances to monitor and alert on their applications. Alertmanager is a cluster-global component for handling alerts generated by all Prometheus instances deployed in that cluster.

Reviewer 2: I think possibly introduce the name Alertmanager in the first sentence. You mention it later, but don't really introduce it:

OpenShift 3.11 ships with a pre-configured and self-updating monitoring stack (Alertmanager) based on the Prometheus open source project.

Author: Alertmanager is only one part of the monitoring stack rather than the whole thing, I've added a bit to the first sentence to declare what the main components are.

### Resource

> Cluster monitoring is deployed with persistent storage, meaning that the metrics are stored on a persistent volume and can survive a pod being restarted or recreated. By default, each Alertmanager instance is allocated 2Gi and each Prometheus instance is allocated 50Gi. In a standard cluster with two infrastructure nodes this will mean 106Gi of storage will be used for cluster monitoring. If the persistent volumes fill up, or you notice them getting close to being full, you can expand the persistent volumes by following the steps in [*How to expand OpenShift persistent volumes*](https://docs.ukcloud.com/articles/openshift/oshift-how-expand-persistent-vols.html) or by raising a Service Request in the UKCloud Portal.

Reviewer 2: What is Gi? Is is it Gibibyte? If so, we use the abbreviation GiB

Author: Changed Gi to GiB throughout
